we shall overcome we shall oh sing we
shall rejoice stay right there we'll sing
sing and shout we will sing and shout So
finally, Lord, in prayer, we say, fill my
cup, Lord.
I lift it up, Lord.
Fill it up.
And now tonight, God, your people sit at
your feet.
Father, they don't sit at my feet because
there's nothing that's germane in me that
can save anyone or challenge anyone or
get your people.
But we sit together at your feet.
We ask you to speak, to feed us, till
we'll want no more.
So fill my cup, fill it up, and make
me...
In the mighty name of Jesus, let
all those who love him and can't wait to
see him say amen.
Truly humbled to be with you here on this
campus at this time.
I told you on Thursday morning And I'm
going to tell you again Because I've been
saying it since I've been here I really
don't know why You Would invite me I
don't believe that I'm intelligent Or
articulate enough To demand Even a minute
of your time But I do believe That God
uses straight, utter boo -boo garbage
like me and if God would use me then God
would make your time worthwhile so I'm
praying that God will speak I was told by
Ev who's sitting in the second row that
on tonight I would need to declare to
everyone who was here que este lugar es
lit ahora tengo que admitir que tengo no
idea lo que significa así que si se cuss
por favor me y cuando se ve en la caja
que era de control que era de control y
la espiritual no era de control no no no
no no no no no no no no no no no no no no
no no no no no no no I assume that it's good.
And I have been learning while I've been
here, this has not been a very good trip
for me.
It's not been a very good trip.
And the reason why it's not been a very
good trip is because I'm constantly being
reminded that I am old.
It's not okay.
Jose Borges, it's not okay.
I don't want to be here anymore Porque
I'm being reminded That I'm old You speak
and I don't understand What you are
saying When people that were in
Deliverance Mass Choir Which by the way
You guys are absolutely, completely And
amazingly phenomenal I think it was some
eight years ago Or some foolishness like
that I was The director of this choir On
this campus It's not good Don't clap
Because now members That were members
with me Have left And then returned
Probably children of my members Singing
in this choir right now It's just I
refuse I will not I'll just leave On
tomorrow My daughter Who was six months
old When we came to this campus turns 10
it's not good when I came to the campus I
used to lightly line my hairline my
hairline has receded like the sea at low
tide when to be on this campus you said
my god I said my god too that's what I
say when I look in the mirror my god but
don't worry because all y 'all tenors up
in here rocking them high top pros you'll
be like this soon enough So, for all
those in the house that are rocking the
receding hairline, let me hear you say amen.
You need to come to the campus to realize
how old I'm getting.
I'm about to drop some stuff on you.
See, I was around when there was the
Tandy computer.
The Commodore.
Don't worry.
When you had these little things I still
remember when I was young A track High
speed dubbing on tapes Was the new thing
I remember boom boxes Get a hold of
somebody else You had this square thing
on your hip Called a beeper Remember when
we had cell phones Now, well the cell
phone first came It was a car phone My
dad, I grew up in Barbados He had a car
phone in a car When there was no cell
phone service in the land And so we would
just drive around And pick up the cell
phone in the car Even though there was no
cell phone service In the land And we
would just max and relax Driving downtown
with this phone to our ears Because we
had a cell phone But there was no service
All these changes One of the biggest ones
for me Was I remember Rance McNally This
is becoming embarrassing I need somebody
in the house to at least pretend That you
know what I'm talking about Thank you
Thank you Thank you very much Rance
McNally When you were leaving Andrews
University And you were going to drive
home on a road trip You would take out
the Rance McNally map Plot your way No
Okay Then from Rance McNally MapQuest
came out ¿Qué es lo que you're thinking about?
We had to put the stuff into the computer
and it would print out the TomTom.
It wasn't as loud for the TomTom.
You put in the coordinates and they came
up with this thing called GPS.
Then from the TomTom, now we got it on
the phone.
So I got MapQuest on my phone.
And when I'm taking a long drive going
somewhere, I'll put in the coordinates
into my phone And I'll tell the phone
where I want to go But there's this new
technology in there That's new to me, not
new to you And it's called rerouting
Where I put in the coordinates for where
it is I want to go But every once in a
while the satellite just looks over my
route And it decides that the way that
I'm going I'm going to run into traffic
And so what the satellite does Is through
the little voice in my MapQuest That
comes through my phone The voice tells me
that I'm about to encounter some traffic.
Now because I'm used to Rance McNally
where you actually plot where it is
you're going.
And you don't turn to the left or to the
right because you might get lost.
I often don't listen to what the little
voice in my phone tells me.
When the voice in my phone tells me
there's traffic ahead.
There's an accident ahead.
We are going to reroute you to save you
some time.
I don't listen to what the phone tells
me, and when I don't listen to the phone,
I will often find myself wasting my time
sitting in traffic because I didn't
listen to the voice in my phone.
Now, we went all around the hills and the dale.
We talked about A -tracks, and we talked
about high -speed dubbing, but I was just
kind of lulling you to sleep to bring you
to a point where I want to tell you that
some people in this room, Tonight, God is
going to speak through his GPS, and he's
going to reroute your life.
Because he sees that there's traffic up ahead.
Now, some people in the house are saying,
well, great.
Yes, God, reroute their lives, their lives.
Reroute them, because I'm holy.
I wear my suit.
I got three buttons on my suit and not
two, and I never walk out the house
without a tie.
I'm a seminary student Lord I'm here to
do your work And here to do your will So
reroute them Because I'm on the right
path But in Acts chapter 16 There are two
guys in the book of Acts And Paul and
Silas Are on a journey Can someone say
journey They're on a journey to do a good
thing They're on a journey And they're on
their way They're going to baptize some
people they're going to preach to some
people and some lost people are going to
get saved and all y 'all say amen but the
Holy Spirit in Acts chapter 16 confronts
Paul and Silas and says to them I know
what you plan to do and what you plan to
do is a good thing but the thing that
you're planning to do is not my will Paul
and Silas are planning to do a good thing
They're going to preach the gospel to
people They're going to go to this part
of the country And everyone is going to
get saved But how many people in the
house know That a good thing is not
always a God thing So the Holy Spirit
gets involved And the Holy Spirit says
Listen, I have a divine appointment for
you There's a place that I need you to go
to There's a work that I've called you to
do Some people in this house or messing
around in the seminary when the Holy
Spirit has been saying get ye out of
there it's a good thing but it's not a
God thing there's some people that I've
encountered on this campus I've seen you
on this campus I was here when you were
here I left and I came back and you're
still here and here you're doing a good
work and it's safe but this is a good
thing but for you sister it's not a God
thing The Holy Spirit walks up in your
life And reroutes your course Not because
you're doing something wrong But because
you're not doing what God has purposed
you to do And even when you're doing a
good thing without God How many people
know that when you do a good thing
without God You can create as much damage
as if you were doing an evil thing
because you're not where your purpose to
be so tonight as we talk tonight I'm
praying that you will reanalyze your life
and ask yourself is there some place
where the Holy Spirit said go right and
you chose to go left because the traffic
up ahead looked good to you tonight I
want to ask you to listen to that voice
as God reroutes your life and says
there's something that I want you to do
the Holy Spirit got up in this mix Paul
and Silas have plans And Paul and Silas
say listen God this is what we're going
to do This is what we're going to do This
is what we're going to achieve Cliff This
is what we plan to do The Holy Spirit
comes in And the Holy Spirit says I know
what you plan to do It's a good thing But
it's not a God thing There's some place
that I want you to go There's someone in
the building today That is sitting in
your seat That is doing some major And
God says what you're doing is a good
thing But it's not what I purposed you to
do I got some place for you to go I got
someone for you to meet So Paul and Silas
The Bible says immediately They listen to
the voice of God And they respond
Immediately You know There's some people
in my church that I will not pray for
They make an appointment And I let them
know I'm unavailable And the reason why
is because there are times when God says
something to you about what you're
supposed to be doing and instead of
responding to what God said you want to
have a prayer meeting you want to pray
and fast about those things that God has
already made clear well in that case
you're praying and you're fasting is
working against God's will because those
who love God when you hear God speak you
respond according to the word immediately
I wonder if there's anybody in the
building that's clear about what God has
told you to do.
And you've been asking for prayer.
Stop praying and start moving.
The Bible says that Paul and Silas are on
their way to this spot.
The Holy Spirit stops them, reroutes them.
And you wonder sometimes, why am I being rerouted?
Well, in Acts 16, verse 16, it tells us,
it says, now it happened as we went to
prayer The reason why God rerouted where
they were going is because God had for
them a divine appointment, a little girl,
a young girl that they needed to meet and
a girl that needed to meet them.
The Bible tells us some things about that girl.
Can we look at the Bible real quick and
find out what the bible says about this
girl first of all the bible tells us that
the girl was young so at a time when
she's supposed to be playing in the
streets when she's supposed to be playing
with dolls when she should have been at a
playground swinging in a swing when she
should have been eating lollipops when
she should have been eating popsicles
enjoying the summer going on summer trips
to Disney The Bible tells us that it's a
young girl And the girl is a slave Now in
the Bible People became slaves only in
three ways That I know about But again I
told you I'm not that smart So maybe
there are more But we're going to
concentrate on the three First of all
there are some people who were sold into
slavery Because of their parents Their
parents owed some creditors So much money
And their parents were cowards So rather
than their parents Selling themselves
into slavery They will sell their
children and their grandchildren into
slavery Not because of what the children
did But because of what the parents did I
know there's some parents in the house
And if there's no parents in the house
There's future parents in the house Don't
sell your children into slavery Because
of some addiction that you're suffering
with Generational curses All over our
families Because of what our parents did
Some people are sold into slavery Then
other people are captured You know, the
country goes at war And they find all the
young people Kind of like Daniel,
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego Some
people are captured But then some people
are born into slavery Where slavery is
all they know Slavery is all they've ever
seen Ghettos is all they know Poverty is
all they've ever seen That's all they
know They don't know anything else When I
was in Seattle, Washington, I was dealing
with a group of people, a group of young
people, and some of them, listen, some of
them had never seen the airport.
Far less getting on a plane.
Some people where slavery and poverty and
hurt and pain is all they know.
Now it becomes very difficult When people
who have been living In glass houses In
suburbs with buses That actually work and
come on time When those people Decide and
judge People who have been born Into
slavery and poverty And that's all they
know And when you say Pull up yourself by
your bootstraps If you just work a little
bit hard It will be okay.
Really?
So when you come to school or when you
show up, do you ever have to, have you
ever had to go to school and not have breakfast?
Have you ever experienced that?
So then how am I and you being judged on
the same plane when we're not standing on
the same plane at all because you came to
school with your stomach full and I
couldn't concentrate on that math class
because my stomach hurt me so bad that my
brain was just fried because I hadn't
eaten in two days.
Some people have been born.
This young girl, she was born.
She was a slave.
And that's all she knew.
But the Bible doesn't only tell us that
she was young.
The Bible doesn't only tell us that she
was a slave.
Then the Bible tells us something, and
this thing is so deep.
And when the Bible gets deep, I just go,
it's just amazing.
It just blows my mind.
Because the Bible is just so crazy that
when you start to dig in, you can't help
but get excited.
The Bible says that she was also involved.
She had a spirit of divination.
Can someone say divination?
Spirit of divination.
So when I saw that, Mike, I started to
dig and I started to ask, what is this
spirit of divination?
And as I started to dig, the actual Greek
said that she had the spirit of python.
Well, what's the spirit of python?
The spirit of python, there was this
Greek god, Apollos, and outside of his
big temple somewhere in Europe he would
have all of these soothsayers all of
these people fortune tellers like Miss
Cleo what was her name?
Miss Cleo and these people would tell the
future and all these people would come to
the temple to try to find out what their
future would be but it was so agonizing
for them to tell the future because their
bodies would just convulge and their
bodies would be wracked in pain And they
would call this spirit the ability to
prophesy or the ability to foretell the future.
They call it the spirit of Python.
Because of the pain that the people had
to go through in order to foretell the future.
Python.
Python is a snake.
Isn't it?
So then I start to go to the zoo and ask
questions about the snake.
Because if she had the spirit of python I
want to find out about the snake And I
found out that snakes kill by two ways
Snakes kill by venom Venom is something
that comes inside of you Where you're
being killed from the inside out But a
python is not a venomous snake A python
is a constrictor A python kills by
applying pressure on the outside and
squeezing its prey until its prey has
nothing left.
It literally squeezes the life out of its
prey from the outside.
There's some people who are dying in our
communities and they're dying because of
stuff that happened on the inside.
Some people are dying because of stuff
that their parents did.
That they did to themselves But there's
some people in our communities That are
being squeezed to death And they're being
squeezed to death From the outside
Squeezed to death So that when you go to
a poor community And you see more liquor
stores Than libraries Ah!
Spirit of Python When you can go to
McDonald's And that's the only meal That
you can afford But in California, when
you pull up to the drive -thru window,
you see a label on the drive -thru window
that says this food is known to cause cancer.
And that's all you can feed your children.
Squeezing from the outside.
The spirit of python is all around us.
when you go to cities that used to be
filled with minorities and now all of a
sudden in a neighborhood where minorities
used to thrive they can no longer get
bank loans to fix their broken houses and
then all of a sudden in five years you go
back to that neighborhood and the
neighborhood is all fixed up all the
grass is green all the palm trees are
swaying and all of a sudden the bank's
got money to loan from the outside spirit
of python is squeezing us squeezing us
and it intends to squeeze us until
there's nothing left now this is the
problem with constricting snakes because
sometimes the prey struggles and looks
alive but it's really struggling to its
death cause spirit of python so you got a
young girl who should have been playing
she's a slave she's a slave and she also
has a spirit and the bible says that the
spirit is the spirit of python and then
the bible says this can I make it a
little bit worse are you guys still with
me this evening I'm going to make it a
little bit worse it says that she has
these people she's a slave to these men
and the bible calls the men lords and
these men are making money on her misery
and they're profiting from her pain I
can't tell you the name of the guy but
just this week there was a guy who he's
one of these very rich men that went out
and bought a pharmaceutical company and a
pharmaceutical company makes a drug that
is very specific that people who are
hurting really really need He takes the
drug and he jacks up the price by over 100%.
He gets called in to Congress and they're
asking him why this drug has miraculously
gone up by over 100%.
And he pleads the fifth And smiles all
the way through Spirit of python Lords
making money off of misery And profiting
off of pain Paul and Silas see this girl
It gets deeper Paul and Silas see this
girl And when they see this girl They are
aware Someone say aware They're aware of
her plight They're aware that she's a
slave They're aware that there's a spirit
on her And they do nothing about it Acts
16 verse 18 I want you to stay with me
And she did this for many days She walked
around behind Paul and Silas And said
these men are men of God These men are
men of God She did it over and over and
over and over For many days And Paul did nothing.
And I was so disappointed and hurt to
know that Paul, my hero, saw a young girl.
And he was aware of her issue.
And he was aware of her pain.
And he was aware that she was a slave.
And he was aware that she had this spirit
on her.
The spirit of python squeezing the life
out of her.
And he did nothing.
He did nothing.
He did nothing He did nothing He had the
power in him To change her life And he
did nothing He ignored What this little
girl was going through How do you ignore
The pain of the people around you When
you got power to change it Nothing
Nothing So a little boy in Cleveland
Playing with a toy gun And he shot back
He dies o a kid catching a train in
Portland, Oregon arrested by cops in
handcuffs and gets shot multiple times
and dies on the train platform and we do
nothing listen it's not new one of the
churches that were grimly absent and
silent during the times when black people
needed to hear their voice we're used to
doing nothing.
Nothing.
We do nothing.
A little girl is dying.
Diabetes in our communities.
We do nothing.
Kids get shot all over the place.
All you're worried about is your bill.
We do nothing.
We could still come to choir practice And
sing la la la songs While we do nothing
How is it that people are going through
pain And the church of God is doing
nothing Nothing We're aware of the issue
We're aware of the problem But we do
nothing The problem is That when we hear
about issues Not just with black people
You watch CNN You watch CNN and after
those jokers Who are trying to be
president Finish all their parading
There's people in Syria That can't eat
There's a little mother Listen, when you
look at TV I want you to stop making some
mockery Of these people in these
countries I want you to be able to look
at them And when you see a little kid
With a swell stomach Because they have
not eaten And you're in the calf throwing
things away I want you to see that that
kid is not a puppet That kid is not a
play doll That kid is a real child from a
real mother Who had dreams for his life
And we Do The worst thing in the world Is
when people Who could do something Do
Nothing Because according to the bible
that I read The person That caused the
pain The lords, the pimps Is no more evil
than the person who does nothing about it
Paul does nothing he doesn't even turn
around doesn't rub her head he does
nothing until is there anybody in the
house that has failed God so many times
you failed him over and over again but
you're thankful that God gave you another
opportunity to do something when you did
nothing how many people are grateful for
a second chance he did nothing until
thank you jesus he did nothing until this
is what the bible says in act 16 18 he
says and this she did for many days but
paul became annoyed he became annoyed see
when I watch CNN I'm amused and if I see
things long enough I might become
agitated when I become amused I'll tell
my wife did you see such and such on
Facebook that ain't right girl that ain't
right alright what we got for dinner
what's for dinner that's what we need to
talk about when I become agitated I might
make a post on Facebook I might send a
letter to somebody But after I make the
post And after I send the letter I walk
away because I've done my civil duty And
I can allow them to continue to be in
pain Because if I ever saw them in heaven
I would be able to say I made a post
about your problem It's not amused
anymore Paul Is not agitated anymore No,
the Bible says That Paul is annoyed The
word actually means that he's angry And
it means that he's angry to the point
That he's willing to actually do
something about it Paul is annoyed I'm
waiting for a generation of young people
In the Seventh -day Adventist church To
get past simply being amused Did you see
what happened?
Snapchat!
No, no, I'm waiting for us to get past
being agitated.
Because when we're agitated, forgive me,
you know, I try to be nice and my wife
says, you preach like you don't want to
come back.
That's the only way I know how to preach.
I got a church in Sacramento, all right?
Listen, listen, listen, I am waiting for
a bunch of young people to say that we're
not amused and we're not just agitated
because when we're agitated there's an
issue in the world, we speak to that
issue for as long as it is convenient and
then the issue remains and we get silent
so I saw in March, it was nice saw a
video of it it was really cool I was
proud of my alma mater for responding But
what happened next I've seen the posters
Water for Flint It's great And I'm sure
that it can use your water But when your
water runs out And they're still drinking
brown water What are you going to do
about it I see the buses We go to Benton
Harbor We wave as we pass by But when
there's no change in the poverty in
Benton Harbor But we still got money to
be able to buy multiple Jordans am I
messing up maybe I'm messing up hey
listen it ain't just you I ain't just
talking to you I'm talking to me see when
I do the evangelistic meeting I want to
see everybody in the house the house
needs to be full and then we're going to
baptize we're going to dunk them we're
going to celebrate them we're going to
have a meal we're going to shake their
hands at the door but when they go home
and they go back to their houses and the
evangelistic event is done I no longer
have anything to report because everybody
has hailed me as the greatest evangelist
that ever lived because I baptized 50
when these 50 people who were baptized
actually need real help am I going to
show up am I going to be around or am I
going to do what Paul did and ignore it
he ignored it until the Bible says that
he became agitated y angry y annoyed ¿sí
lo que estoy tratando de esta mañana?
no sé si estoy tratando de un buen
trabajo de esto estoy tratando de hacer
mal pero no quiero hacer mal at la
escuela no quiero hacer mal at la system
no quiero hacer mal at Fox o CNN no
quiero hacer mal at politicians quiero
hacer mal at you porque el poder de Dios
es en el mundo para cambiar el mundo y
usando Dios el poder que te dio para
cambiar el mundo to make your pockets fat.
Use me.
Anybody in the building want to say, God,
use me.
Paul gets agitated.
And when he gets agitated, he turns around.
And he doesn't have to ask God for power
because the power to change that girl was
always in him.
He turns around and he just says this.
He said to the spirit, now I told you
that the Bible is deep and it's real real
wonderful I want you to read this text
tonight and I want you to celebrate with
me because Paul didn't speak to the girl
he spoke to the spirit speak to her Paul
didn't speak to the girl Paul didn't say
you dirty nothing nothing you are a
prostitute you are a drug dealer your
skirt is too low no he didn't speak to
any of that he spoke to the spirit
because the issue was never the girl God
loved the girl It was the spirit in the
girl That had to come out of the girl
Paul spoke to the spirit Stop vilifying
people There's only one villain in the
world And that villain is a dirty dirty
dog And his name is the devil And
sometimes we're casting on people Things
that we should be throwing to him Paul
didn't have no problem with the girl He
had a problem with the spirit in the girl
So then Paul says this I command you Now
When you just Yeah You just speak to
something If I go home and tell my wife I
command you Use the word Are people Who
understand that they have Authority You
People who use the word Command
Understand That they have Authority Now,
I walk around and I call myself the king
of my house When I'm not in the house But
when I get into my house This is what
happens Damien, take out the garbage Yes
ma 'am I saw on the kids report card that
they were late on Monday I'm so sorry
Jesus Save us Because in my house I hope
my wife is not looking Watching on ¿Is
this online?
New Jesus You ready?
Because There's some people who act like
they have power And it's only when you
get into a situation where power is
needed That we can see how powerless you
really are You really know who got the
power when you get into the situation We
talked about being underpowered yesterday
We're jumping off of that today When I
walk into the house When my wife speaks I
move Porque mi wife has authority Paul
says I command you We've been playing
with the devil for too long We've been
allowing things to exist In our
communities that God has already Given us
authority over If we would just say to
the devil I command you We've been seeing
things in our families Generational
curses And things that don't need to be
there God wanted to deliver you a long
time ago But you gotta use your authority
my children will love the Lord my house
shall be saved my church shall be full in
the name of Jesus we will take sacramento
for the king because God has given me
authority I command you I wonder if
there's anybody in the house that's
willing to use the authority you say
command the devil knows that you're not
playing games so stop these pity patty
prayers Lord I pray that you would use
the drugs to touch the doctors let them
work their work and maybe just maybe I
might be healed of this cold what?
somebody shout out we got authority he
turns and he uses the power that was
always in him to do what he should have
already done turned and he says I command
you and then you know when you got
authority when you got authority the
question ends up being who did that
authority come from can I go back to my
house every once in a while my daughter
and sons try to play me Cliff you know
them well they try to play me I don't
like getting played they will come up to
me y les diré, «Daddy, we don't got to do
no homework today».
Now, when they tell me that they don't
have to do homework, I am tempted to take
my right hand and to connect it with
their left butt cheek because you can't
tell me that you ain't doing no homework.
I'm the boss.
Until they say, Mommy said When they say
Mommy said Daddy says Well okay then
Because mommy got authority See Zoe and
Salem And Levi they ain't got no
authority One is ten One is six And one
is four going forward You ain't got no
authority Yeah yeah But when they invoke
mommy's name We're about to go to work,
we're about to go to work The Bible says
in the book of Matthew That there's a
strong man that holds a house That's what
the Bible says It describes evil spirits
like a strong man That holds a house And
this is what the Bible says That until a
stronger man Comes into the house And
binds that strong man There's no way to
take that strong man's property One more
time The Bible says that evil spirits Are
like a strong man that has a house It
takes a stronger man To come in and bind
that man And then take his property I
don't fight against the devil To him I
look weak To him I look porgy To him I
look like a four year old boy Trying to
be forty But when I invoke Brother Jesus
Christ Jesus is the stronger man y
snatches his property.
Jesus Christ is the strong man.
When I invoke Jesus' name, when I call on
the name of Yeshua, do you know that when
I call on the name of Yeshua, do you know
why it makes the devil afraid?
This is where you got to dig in the word.
You know why the name of Jesus makes the
devil afraid it's in the meaning of his
name can anybody in the house tell me
what Jesus name means what salvation
means that God saves it's in his name
it's in his name so that when I call on
his name I I pronunce to the devil The
function of my big brother My big brother
He saves Now notice That Jesus' name Does
not include What he is able to save from
Because if that was included In his name
Then all the devil would need to do Is
find something that's not on Jesus' list
Jesus can save From the gutter most To
the utter most Anything you going through
He's able to deliver Jesus save That God
has given you To be able to command
Demons And devils To flee there's
authority That God has placed In his
church To command poverty and sickness to
cease there is authority that God has
given me as a parent to pray the Holy
Spirit over my children while they sleep
but if I'm not willing to use the
authority that God has already given me
if I want to ignore the issues then the
issues that I ignore will stay the same
because people who have power do nothing
to help the powerless I'm done They call
on the name of Jesus When they call on
the name of Jesus This is what the Bible
says He says in the name of Jesus Come
out of her And he came out And went away
That very hour Listen This is not a come
to Jesus Sermon This is a wake up and do
God's work sermon I appreciate All of the
universities We got I appreciate all the
hospitals we got I appreciate all the
churches we got But when you got
universities and hospitals And churches
that exist in communities And those
communities are still Lost and those
communities are still Suffering though
those churches And communities and
hospitals have Been there for a hundred
years then something is wrong with the
church can you agree with me on that when
you got a school that graduates 400
graduates that leave this place every
single year and you go all over the world
you go to here you go to there and the
places that you go to are still lost then
something's wrong something's wrong
something's wrong and I want to suggest
to you tonight the issue is one of the
issues are is You have ignored what you
are aware of.
But after you become aware, I want you to
become angry.
And then after you become angry, I want
you to be the answer.
I want you to become aware.
I want you to become angry.
Then I want you to be the answer.
There's this lady.
I just learned about her just today.
This lady's name was Josephine.
She lived in the city of Montgomery.
And near 1939, she was sitting on a bus.
And when she was sitting on that bus, she
watched a black woman walk into the bus
and pay her fare.
In those days, when you paid your fare as
a black person, you'd walk in the front
door, pay your fare.
Then you would have to get off the bus
and walk into the black door and sit in
the back.
She sat, she watched this black lady get
in and pay her fare and when the black
lady got off the bus the bus driver
pulled off.
Now I got to tell you a little bit about Josephine.
Can I tell you a little bit about Josephine?
She was a white lady.
She was an aristocrat.
She was rich.
She had a name and she had power but a
long time before Rosa Parks this white
lady Josephine used her power to help the
powerless she got up said that she was
angry and she pulled the emergency stop
on the bus and made the driver stop Until
that black lady got on That's how you use
power The article said for days after
that Every time Josephine was on a bus
She would pull the emergency stop To make
sure that black people Could get on
Because she had power And she had
authority and she used it for people who
did not have power or authority my little
son Salem he was in my wife's car and my
son is very sensitive to pain and he was
driving down the street and he saw a
homeless man standing at the street light
listen to this the homeless man that he
saw I've seen a million times before and
I know that though that man may be
homeless he's playing some folk and
making a lot of money my son so when I
see that homeless man I often say you
don't need no money in my head you're
just trying to play me for the money I
work hard for but not my son my son saw
the homeless man and he started to weep
and he cried uncontrollably all the way
to church he cried through a piece of the
church service and no one could console
him and then he said why is it that
people can purchase a ticket and win 1 .5
billion dollars and that man is hungry
he's six I trust God that when he becomes
a man of authority He will use His power
To help the powerless You're here at
Andrews University You're going to leave
as doctors and lawyers And engineers,
biochemists You're going to be pastors
You're going to be successful You're
going to have your degrees You're going
to leave Andrews University You're going
to do your masters And you're going to do
your doctorate And you're going to pray,
God give me opportunity But God is
questioning your request tonight because
he's asking, what are you going to do
with the power you're asking for?
Is it going to just make your pocket fat?
Are you going to turn around to a slave
girl who should have been licking a
lollipop and enjoying a summer at Disney
and use your power to help the powerless?
I wonder if there's anyone in the
building today That would say to God God
you can use me You can trust me Reroute
my life And place me in a place oh God
Where I can use the power that you've
given me To help people who need it If
you're in this building And you're
serious about that commitment Only for
those who are serious about it Will you
stand and join me at the altar Because I
want God to use My power To help the
powerless I want God to use My influence
For the benefit of someone else I want
God To reroute my life Change my course
Use me To set some slave free Come in
close I'm going to give you a caveat You
ready for the caveat?
The work that you're asking God to do
through you Cannot be added to your plans
for yourself So in coming to this altar
You are saying to God God, no longer my
plans You have a divine appointment for
me I want to be where you want me to be I
want to do what you call me to do And I'm
willing to give my plans away I give
myself away You gotta ask yourself
whether or not you're ready to do this
All your plans and dreams I give myself
away So you, so you can use me I give
myself away So you ready?
So now, I believe the Bible is full of
symbolism y actual actions symbols cause
truths to seek into my heart I want you
right now to go into your pocket if you
have one or pretend you do and I want you
to pull out your plan for your life your
plan go in there and pull out your plan
your plan then I want you to put your
plan in the middle of your two hands and
present it to God as an altar Say God you
can have it Sacrifice it It does not
belong to me anymore I'm giving it You
got your plan in your hands Now I want
you to look at your plan I want you to
tell your plan Goodbye For some of you it
means that Something that you've been
chasing after your entire life Telling it
goodbye Some dream Hey listen the dreams
of your parents who are paying your
school bill God is going to call some of
you tonight to be bold and to really
share with your parents what God has
always been saying to you you're not
supposed to be in that major you're not
supposed to study that stuff and you
can't live your life to make your parents
proud and make God sad no matter who's
paying the bill because God says I got a
cattle on a thousand hills I got a
million ways to pay your bill If you
would just give it to me So I want you to
raise That altar high Raise that altar
high Let God know he can have it Repeat
after me Lord you can have it Lord you
can have it My life is not my own I
belong to you Use me for your cause Come
on lift your voice Use me for your cause
Use me for your cause God, use me for
your cause Father, I pray That you will
absolutely jack up somebody's life And
that you would start tonight Father, I
pray that you will reroute someone's life
And that you will start tonight God, I
pray in the mighty name of Jesus That you
will allow your spirit to rest so heavy
on someone's heart tonight that they will
not be able to sleep until they change
until they're determined to use the
authority and the power that you've given
to them to help the powerless to lift
some slave girl out of slavery Father I
also pray that this won't just be a
moment but that your spirit will so
agitate us until we become annoyed until
we become angry at the things that you're
angry at until we feel the pain of the
things where you feel pain and that it
won't be for a moment and it won't be for
a text or a tweet or a Facebook post but
that You will give each and every one of
us an assignment that we can't shake.
That we will continue for the
underprivileged to lift up and break the
back of slavery and poverty.
Make the world that we live in better
because we're here.
Holy Spirit, sit on our hearts.
And may we not be able to shake this mission.
In the mighty name of Jesus.
the one who saves repeat with me ready my
life is not my own this is the conclusion
to you I belong give myself I give myself
will you raise will you raise that altar
towards the Lord your life my life is not
to you I belong I give myself, I give
myself Last time, my life is not my own
God, use this generation for your glory
Agitate us, oh God I give myself Make us
angry, Lord And then move us I give
myself I want you to shake the hand of
two, three people around you 5, 6, y say
use your power for the powerless, use
your power to help the powerless, use
your power for the sake of the powerless
use your power for the sake of the
powerless, use your power for the sake of
the powerless use your power for the powerless